So, here's the cure to being stuck that
you definitely do not want to hear.
You're not stuck. Stuck is a feeling.
It's not an actuality. And when you
realize what creates that, and when you
realize that you're actually not stuck,
everything changes. And it changes
really quickly.
So, here's how the whole thing works.
You think about something that you want.
You think about, say, I want a
promotion. And then you think about a
way to get it. I'm going to ask my boss
for a promotion. And then you think
maybe another way to do it. Oh, I'm
going to just work really, really hard.
And then you think maybe another way to
get it. I am going to ask my boss's boss
for a promotion. And then you look at
those three options and you think, oo, I
don't like the consequences of any of
these. And that's when you feel stuck.
You feel stuck because you do not like
the potential consequences of the ways
that you see to get unstuck. So what
does that mean specifically? Let's say I
ask my boss and then I'm going to try to
do a great job, but I realize I've been
doing a great job for 2 years and it
hasn't got me a promotion. I don't want
to be here for three more years doing a
great job and not get a promotion. And
then I think about talking to my boss's
boss. And then I'm scared that they'll
say, "Oh, you went over this boss's head
or my boss is going to get mad at me for
going over their head. I don't like any
of the options. I don't like the
potential consequences and so I must be
stuck."
So there are many issues with being
scared of the consequences. One of the
issues with being scared of the
consequences is that you're thinking
that there's only one way to do it,
right? So think about it this way. I'm
going to ask my boss for a promotion.
Well, I could do that by saying, "I want
a promotion." I could do that by saying,
"If you don't give me a promotion, I'm
going to quit." I could do that by
saying, "What would it take for me to
get a promotion?" I could say it as what
would make you extremely excited to give
me a promotion. There's all sorts of
things that I could do to get that
promotion, to ask for that promotion.
But because I'm scared, and that's the
critical thing. I'm scared of the
consequences. I'm not thinking about all
the solutions. I'm just thinking in a
binary way, yes or no. Will I will it
work or will it not work? Instead of, oh
yeah, there's lots of different ways to
do it that could make it work. The other
thing that's happening because I am in
fear is that I see this false end. I get
thought of as greedy or presumptuous for
asking for a promotion. But what does my
boss think about me the next day and the
next day and the day after that and the
month after that and the year after
that?
How often do you change your mind about
somebody? How often do you think, "Oh,
that person's needy." And then you find
out that they're not. So the other thing
that fear is doing in that situation is
it is limiting you to thinking that
there's an action and there's a
consequence and then there's nothing
beyond the consequence. So we're sitting
here thinking that we're stuck because
we're scared of the consequences. And
the fear of the consequences is making
it so that we can't see all the
optionality that we have.
And the reason that this is happening
like deep down the reason that this is
happening is that we are choosing
perceived safety over risk. We are
thinking oh we will be safe if we don't
make any action and we will be at risk
if we take an action which is just
simply not true. But it's how we feel
because again being stuck is a feeling.
It's not a reality and it's a a feeling
that really gets driven by fear.
I was once working with a vice president
of a really big organization and she was
worried about starting her own company.
She was like, "Ah, yep, maybe I'll fail
if I start this company." And so I
started asking her a series of
questions. I started saying, "Well,
let's say two years you fail. Are you
more hirable or less hirable than
before?"
The answer was more hirable. She had
more skills. She understood more. She
had more of an entrepreneurial spirit.
All those things would make her more
effective
as a vice president in any big company.
So, she's more hirable.
I said, "Yeah, and what do you think
about your ability to succeed in a big
company if you'd started your own
thing?" "Oh, I could succeed a lot
more." And so, there was this perceived
risk.
there's this potential risk, but it's
actually a lot less risky than staying
as a vice president in a company. And
when we looked at that, it became really
clear. I said, like, what's the lifespan
of a vice president in your company?
And it wasn't very long. It was like
maybe three or four years. She'd already
been in it for two years. So, they fired
as a vice president or failed as a CEO.
Like, which one's actually the bigger
risk?
So what's actually going on there is the
perception is that we are trading safety
for risk, but what we're actually
trading is the known for an adventure.
What we're actually trading is the known
for the excitement. And that gives us a
clue as to one of the things that we can
do when we feel stuck.
We can feel excited. And there's a lot
of reasons for that. And let me go into
them. The first one is that in our
brain, neurologically speaking, our fear
and our excitement are really wired in a
in a very similar way. So often times we
confuse the two. As a matter of fact,
you can think of fear in two ways.
There's the fear of, "Oh my gosh, I'm
going to die." And then there's the fear
of, "Oh, I'm going to get on stage. Oh,
I'm going to walk into a bigger room.
Oh, somebody might not like me if I'm
who I am." And this is like stepping
into a bigger room fear.
And that actually has a lot of
excitement in it. It's a calling. It's
an adventure. And yeah, we might be
scared on the adventure, but we're
excited by the adventure, too. And so,
if we can really feel the excitement
move, we can see the fear more clearly,
and we can see what to do much quicker.
And so, there's a really simple
technique to do this. It's really,
really simple. The next time you're
noticing that you feel stuck and you're
scared of a consequences, just say to
yourself, I'm excited 10 20 times
particularly about the thing like I'm
excited to ask for a job. I'm excited to
ask for a promotion. I'm excited to ask
I'm excited to start my new business
because there's some truth in it. If
there's something in you that wants it,
there is some part of you that is deeply
excited about it. And if you hold that
excitement back, if you're not feeling
it, it's going to come out as fear. It's
going to come out as anxiety and it's
going to come out as you feeling stuck.
Another way to move through this
stuckness is to actually see that what
you think is safety is often stagnation
and what you think as risk is often
iteration. So think about it this way.
You can only fail if you actually stop
trying. How many companies do you know
did the same thing over and over and
over again and still exist? How many
people do you know who stagnated in a
marriage, had a successful marriage? How
many people that you know chose no new
adventure, nothing exciting, and then
have a life that you want to live?
So there actually is no safety and
stagnation. And the reason that the
iterative mindset works is that if you
are a human, actually if you are any
vertebrae, what you have is something
called the habenula. And the benula
basically teaches you not to fail at the
same thing over and over again. And that
makes a lot of sense. If you are a bear
and you just got your butt kicked
because you were trying to get mating
rights, you don't want to go do that
again. Or if you are a squirrel and you
eat a mushroom that makes you sick, you
don't want to go and do that again. So
we have a part of our brain that is
geared to make sure that we don't fail
over and over and over again. So, if you
see what you're doing as a potential
failure, then you're probably not going
to want to do it. But if you see what
you're doing as an iteration, if you can
see your life as a constant set of
iterations, well, then there's no
problem. We just call that practice.
Then it's really easy to see through
that fear and to see what's actually
there, which is excitement.
Safety comes from actually constantly
growing and constantly moving to the
next thing. and constantly feeling that
excitement, that pull, that urge for
adventure
so that you can become the thing that
you want to be. Safety is in the
evolution. Safety is not in stagnation.
So, if you want to go more into
procrastination and getting unstuck, we
have a micro course that's free. It's
easy. It's fun. And you can find it
right here or click the link below.